---
layout: post
title: Falafels
date: 2021-03-05
categories: [recipe]
tags: [meal, vegan, mediterranean]
---

Here are the ingredients:

 - 2 cups raw chickpeas (Do **not** use canned or cooked chickpeas)
 - 1/2 tsp baking soda
 - 1 cup fresh parsley leaves, stems removed (or I used mint)
 - 3/4 cup fresh cilantro leaves, stems removed
 - 1/2 cup fresh dill, stems removed
 - 1 small onion, quartered
 - 7-8 garlic cloves, peeled
 - Salt to taste
 - 1 tbsp ground black pepper
 - 1 tbsp ground cumin
 - 1 tbsp ground coriander
 - 1 tsp cayenne pepper, optional (I used 1 tsp chilli powder)
 - 4 tbsp gram flour
 - 1 tsp baking powder
 - 2 tbsp toasted sesame seeds

Steps:

 1. (One day in advance) Place the raw chickpeas and baking soda in
    a large bowl filled with water to cover the chickpeas by at least
    2 inches. Soak overnight for 18 hours (longer if the chickpeas
    are still too hard). When ready, drain the chickpeas completely
    and pat them dry.
 2. Add the chickpeas, herbs, onions, garlic and spices to the large
    bowl of a food processor fitted with a blade. Run the food
    processor 40 seconds at a time until all is well combined forming
    a falafel mixture.
 3. Transfer the falafel mixture to a container and cover tightly.
    Refrigerate for at least 1 hour or (up to one whole night) until
    ready to cook.
 4. Just before frying, add the baking powder and sesame seeds to the
    falafel mixture and stir with a spoon.
 5. Scoop tablespoonfuls of the falafel mixture and form into patties
    (1/2 inch in thickness each). It helps to have wet hands as you
    form the patties.
 6. Fill a medium saucepan 3 inches up with oil. Heat the oil on
    medium-high until it bubbles softly. Carefully drop the falafel
    patties in the oil, let them fry for about 3 to 5 minutes or so
    until crispy and medium brown on the outside. Avoid crowding the
    falafel in the saucepan, fry them in batches if necessary. A much
    healthier alternative is to use an air fryer, or otherwise to bake
    them.
 7. Place the fried falafel patties in a colander or plate lined with
    paper towels to drain.
 8. Serve falafel hot next to other small plates; or assemble the
    falafel patties in pita bread with tahini or hummus, arugula,
    tomato and cucumbers. Enjoy!
